Hello, everybody, including the Stellar's Jay.
Welcome.
I was listening to Eric Weinstein.
And that is the way, the correct way to pronounce.
It's Stein, not Steen, in this case.
Just to help you remember in case you care too.
And what he was talking about was complicated to
synopsis.
One of the subtopics was the danger of artificial
intelligence, which is something I can and will
riff on at length sometime soon, but probably not
today, we'll see.
And as some of you know, I've been deeply and rather
urgently curious about a phenomenon.
Phenomenon?
I think it's the latter phenomenon.
We'll find out later.
Yeah, I've been deeply curious about something that
took place in my life around the end of 2018 and
involved a sudden transformation of my lived
experience as a human being that was quite
confusing.
And I'd be inclined to think that this is personal to
me.
I'm traversing the boundary of what I might think of as
a life phase or something has gone horribly wrong in my
body or my mind or both.
And of course, you know, it's relatively easy to
become suspicious of oneself in a broad variety of
exotic and often momentous ways.
It certainly didn't feel like this is local to me,
but then you always have the question, how would you
know?
To the degree that you're isolated or unable to...
You don't have access to a broad group of people with
whom you can explore quest, actually, together.
And I want to be really clear that if you're trying to
learn something, you want a tightly knit, brilliant,
curious, passionate, playful, creative little cohort of
three to eight people or something to do the work with
because in any situation where you share motivations as a
human being, and in case it isn't obvious, all of work.
That's not a small category.
The entirety of work.
And all of war, the entirety of war, both of these two
things primarily capture and, you know, weaponize in their
own ways, deploy both the intrinsic urge.
And I want you to hear the word urgency when I use that word
there.
The intrinsic urge to follow each other into something
like triumph, glory, if you will, beauty, profundity.
To follow each other into meaningful roles and noble and
triumphant endeavors together.
And if any of us take a moment and stop and ask ourselves,
does any of my human experience muchly look like that?
In a way, a lot of that is make something new happen.
Children are very good at it.
They just play.
Of course, dismissing it with such a simplistic word doesn't
help us understand what's really going on there.
It's nothing like the common supposition of meaningless
costumery and role-playing and so on.
Notice that much of what the children do qualifies as role-playing.
The adults are doing that but not realizing it, and they're
often playing roles that actually suck, that are terrible to
play for the sake of jobs and war and for the sake of the
anatomy rather than learning and so forth.
Eric said that one of his favorite quotes, which he said he
loves, and I know what it is to crafted a phrase that one feels
pretty excited to have participated in the birth of.
This is possible in language and it's possible in English.
Few of us have good reason to reach for it regularly.
Most of us have suffered losses and injustices that would
incline our hearts to rise from their common graveyards and
speak posthumously about what killed them.
That would be a heroic endeavor.
You certainly want a small cohort of human agreement.
The agreement to pursue, for example, what we refer to in
English as a course of action together.
For mutual benefit, insight, for justice not in the sake of
punishing something that went wrong but in the sense of doing
something so beautiful that everyone who ever lived would
obviously agree and stand up and cheer where they present.
That's what I mean by triumph.
I don't mean game theoretical zero sum-ness.
I beat him, whatever.
I don't mean that.
There's always an option more beautiful than any that's ever
been tabled.
In a sense, this is what we are going, this is what humans go
nuts over when they become very interested in.
Small sequences of time in a sporting event.
Notice those two things.
What is primarily meant by sport?
The actual underlying meaning is we will become heroic together
and there might be a subtext that goes something like,
while threatening but not actually killing each other.
While threatening to destroy the foe and even using similar
language.
He devised that, you know, right?
But largely if not completely avoiding explicit, you know,
lethal physical violence the way something like war does.
Obviously these two very confusing behaviors of humans have a
lot in common and discovering what they have in common and how
where that originates and how those forces could be redirected
would be the mandate, not the mandate, the, it's not purview.
It would be the description of, some of you will know the word I'm
trying to remember.
Somewhere between mandate and purview is this word and I think it
starts with P, the provision of a worthy mission, right?
A quest in which our triumph would liberate many beings.
And if there's a simple definition of the kinds of quests that I
think we come to human incarnation in order to participate in,
ignoring that language is fallible and confusing, we might say
something that resembles.
Let us return degrees of liberty, insight, communion and memory to
each other moment by moment while we dwell here in a very
confusing layered array of desynchronizing masquerades proposed
and in some cases mandated by something that is neither human nor
sane.
We will work against those things together to ensure a better life
for our children, a happier eternity for our ancestors and indeed
for all of the kinds of children and ancestors that the earth produces.
And maybe we could extend it beyond there.
No, all, all forms of ancestors, all forms of children in all of
time on every world, right?
As if they were one family, which I have good reason to strongly suspect
they probably are.
So Eric's one of his favorite quotes or something he said is,
and I may be paraphrasing slightly, but it's such a short statement
that whatever noise I'm likely to introduce will be very minimal.
It will probably preserve the spirit of the speaker rather than depart
into my own projections.
He said many people will die never having heard their own voice.
And he doesn't mean the kind of hearing that I am at present experiencing
in my ears of my speech.
He means something like,
what your soul itself would compose given the liberty and skill required
to do so.
In a moment of cataclysmic passion that not merely transforms history
but mediates it in such a way as to pierce the veils of both linguistic
and social fictions completely.
A shining sort of insight, a passion of meaningful form.
And the ironic thing is that Eric has succeeded in doing something that
it might be called a grunge in my private language.
It's a branching. It's a specific kind of branching.
There are statements that turn out to enact and at the same time describe
what they themselves are doing.
And one of the things that Eric is doing there
isn't as dumb as speaking.
It's not as simple as speak truth to power.
It's interesting though that, you know, sometimes could be
if it hadn't been captured and weaponized against its own origin
by nefarious amalgams of zombie-like intention in the dead protocols humans run
and call civilization.
And maybe just there, I was doing what Eric was doing.
Raising a sword against an entire dimension of actual injustice
of immiserating humans and all beings on Earth
because if the humans aren't happy, boy,
will they visit the punishment to every possible place it can be visited
and invent new ones today.
He was doing what he was saying.
He was lifting his voice.
This is something that he obviously deeply believes in.
And I think he wants to do more than speak.
Even the opportunity, I doubt this guy would continue to sit on stages
expositing the trouble and his perplexity at what might be understood
as our mutual continued explicit toleration of and or active,
or I should say mostly passive, both, passive and active membership in.
This is what he would be very concerned about.
And I think most people, given an exit route from that charade,
they might be very cautious and frightened at first and timid.
But if they're given a modest taste
of the results of creative enactment, right,
creative mutual enactment of such principles,
they're not going to go back to McDonald's,
to the McDonald's of human purpose.
And one of the things Eric is saying is that something has gone horribly wrong.
And give me a moment here.
Something has gone horribly wrong in such a way
that it appears at least here in the West.
I can't, you know, and among many people known to me
that a fundamental resource that ordinarily causes our interest
and motivation and so forth has disappeared.
It has at least been occluded if it hasn't been straight up stolen.
Now, I don't know what happened at the end of 2018.
It's pre-COVID.
Having spoken with many people,
they describe a sudden onset of radical disturbances.
And some of them describe a felt sense of impending doom just before the transition.
I know that I'm going to say something that's kind of spooky,
but anything that can steal something from us that results in a significant loss
of the ability to detect the problem can just keep stealing till we're dead.
Anything that does that.
It should be obvious to the proportion of humans perversely incentivized
to go after the rest of the humans for whatever can be taken from them.
And let's be clear, that's a significant cohort in terms of power.
It doesn't have to have a big number.
Seven powerful people without agenda, they're going to make shit happen.
Here we see the dark side of the power of human agreement.
And that dark side is weirdly all around us.
It's very difficult to forge a vessel for discovery, insight, creativity, play, and triumph
in an environment where every organization can be captured.
Anything that succeeds can be captured.
So we might have to together become experts in the short term one stroke, two strokes,
successful quest or caper, mutual adventure, rescue, rehumanizing, liberating.
We might have to become really good at forming a pod like group, training it briefly,
running some experimental quests, and then going after something really worth achieving together
and dissolving and then going on to the next phase.
I've noticed that living systems in nature do this all the time.
They have extremely meaningful, however momentary,
semiotic or really pro...
Well, something I can't say in English.
It means pro-transsentient.
Endeavors where we don't just build a vehicle, we lift the whole context, you know,
two or three orders above where it normally sits.
And what I would suggest is that whatever the fuck happened in 2018 was the opposite.
Something drained a context.
And it may have only been partly human.
It may be that even the zombie functions that run as human civilizations and societies
obey some kind of a synchronizing influence, right?
Causing them to expand dramatically in concert with transformations of broader contexts
we have no language for or can't detect yet.
What Eric was saying was that
if you observe someone who is really straining at the edges of their capacity to act,
and this is something you will see in common between...
And by the way, there's ways to mimic this so you don't have to actually do it.
You can appear to be doing it and make shitloads of money and gain a lot of human attention.
But if our cultures, our nations,
our strange caricatures, like those assembled by an insane AI image generation system,
if they are strange caricatures of our actual or possible humanity, then war in a sense is them fucking.
And for the unfucked hallucinatory nightmare of not actually being human
thing that our nations have become, and maybe always were,
nothing, there's nothing more important than getting off that way.
This should be obvious if we just track where the money goes.
Where's the money?
It isn't in infrastructure. It's not in social development or education.
It isn't in healthcare.
The money is in generating disasters, which, you know,
this is why the zombie functions that run this way have as one of their organizing imperatives,
I'm using that word again, to fail.
Okay, we understand you're new here, Joe.
You've only been here a couple weeks.
We're trying to produce, you thought we were trying to produce a free energy device,
and so you've brought us seven designs that, as far as I can tell as an engineer,
probably produce free energy.
Don't ever do that again.
I'll let it go this time.
We're not here to produce solutions.
We are paid to study the problem.
That's what we do.
At great expense.
We get a lot of money.
Three million a month for a 25-person organization.
We get a lot of money to not solve that problem.
We'll let it slide this time, next time.
You're not only out, we'll come after you.
Don't go bringing stuff like this to anyone else, either.
This is the problem that we have with the prison military industrial complex,
that Eisenhower clearly saw clairvoyantly, but also not clairvoyantly.
He didn't have to imagine it in the future.
He was being faced with it during his presidency and was trying to do what Eric said, in a sense,
which is to hear the sound of his own actual voice above the din of compliance
and the nine kinds of compromised, cult-like, weaponized perspective
that feeds the paper mills of national invective and propaganda.
And that actually run the prisons, and that actually run the wars, and that actually eat the money, and so forth.
But they don't just eat money. They were satisfied to eat the money.
It might be worth paying them off just to keep them indolent.
Yeah, if that, that wouldn't be the worst investment I could think of of, I don't know,
$30 trillion over, what, 20 years or something? 15, who knows.
And that's just the money, right? Wherever you see money of that magnitude, you can be absolutely certain.
There's environmental, relational, cognitive, and metabolic obliteration, fields and layers of it all around where that money comes from
and what it gets used to do, and what it gets used to ensure we don't do together.
Yeah.
I'll be back in a moment.
So, what did the people who I've spoken with report directly to me and through others?
A sense of impending doom, almost a sense of impending doom, like Frank Herbert's science fiction, which I think both things would be right in a bizarre way.
A sudden feeling of relief, brief, right? Some of them described a brief feeling of relief as if something really heavy they'd been carrying had disappeared or been taken away.
And then a total lack of motivation, disruption of sleep, eating, sudden dimming of awareness and senses,
decreased desire for sex, but decreased desire for relationships,
near absolute a very strong avoidance of work, the loss of the desire to go to work in a dramatic and unprecedented degree.
Some of these things I felt myself, for most of the people I've talked to, it wasn't a temporary change.
It was what Mariners might describe as a sea change. The whole context is different from what it was yesterday.
And as Mariners will tell you, there's certain kinds of calm that, at least for ships long before motors, there's certain kinds of calm, certain flavors of it.
That portend disaster.
You know, one thing you will see as a theme in cultures older than our own, or even our own, not so long ago.
And you will see it both in, it's funny.
You'll see instances of this that have at least not terrible results, and you'll see other instances that are clearly tyrannical.
Let's not throw the whole idea away, because we've seen tyrannical implementations of ideas like the German phrase suggests Arbite-Mockfrey,
which in a relatively literal, simplistic translation is work makes free.
So, you tell everybody that you're bringing into a gulag that work will earn them freedom when, in actuality, what you have here is a death camp.
Nonetheless, humans need, and many tyrants have long been aware of this, humans need to feel useful and that they're contributing toward a meaningful communal identity and efficacy, triumph, glory.
And, you know, if no one gives them something better to do, then war and hatred will serve.
You can, when things are really bad, like they are right now, we're going through this period of an undeclared depression affecting millions of people worldwide.
If I know 50 of them, there must be millions, hundreds of millions of people who are like,
geez, you know, something that fucking went missing from my life.
Am I getting older? What's the problem? What's the cause?
And they must be doing, you know, 900 things to try to understand in their own way for those who were thus affected, which probably isn't everybody.
I mean, in fact, it's not like there's a strict cutoff date of 2018.
There are people who felt the loss far before then, and people who felt the loss sometime after then, and others who haven't felt it yet and may not.
Humans are sort of like a dish that you splash liquid on the counter toward the dish, right?
Let's say you splash beet juice toward the dish, and then what you'll see on the dish is lots of places are completely clean, nothing you can detect there.
There might be molecules, but nothing visible, and then other places are crimson red.
They're bloody in that sense of the metaphor that I'm weaving here.
That's how actual phenomena work.
The ones that affect everyone at once are, well, we would, you know, they have a quality that we would call,
okay, so the situation is someone has placed, someone has moved the dish, right?
And so the dish was on the counter previously.
Now we're going to place the dish onto a body of water surface,
and the dish will sink, and while it is sinking, let's say the dish is made of a mirror-like substance,
it will reflect the surface and what is beyond the surface. It will look like the sky.
So our cultures are a bit like zombies when they are not intentionally inhabited
by humans free, mostly free, of perverse incentives and the urge to mimic virtue rather than enact it.
Now obviously it may seem, and it perhaps often is, that in a state where you have to conserve some form of energy,
I don't mean electricity or gas, you have to conserve some form of energy that is primordial to human potential,
human awareness, human opportunity, human nature, human communal endeavor and recognition.
If you're going to have to operate in an environment where that fundamental energy has largely disappeared
for reasons that are not easily explained, I mean we might go looking for seers to help us understand this,
or possibly scientists, but they're pretty unlikely to be capable of the kinds of observations we need to get data about such things.
It doesn't mean obvious, right? Science is useful when it is useful, and there's lots of places where it is, regardless of how captured it's become.
So one of the things Eric was saying was that we appear here in the West
to have undergone a nearly complete evisceration of our collective motivation to enact virtue, to chase liberation together, to discover.
I mean he's particularly concerned about something I'm concerned about too, I just don't have the same feeling as he does perhaps.
He was using the analogy, which I think is a really good one, one of his hosts was saying, can we fix this?
Can we just do the right? Is there something we can do that's right?
And he was like, look, imagine that your wife is 8.X months pregnant, and suddenly, unexpectedly, because usually I think such things take us by surprise, her water breaks.
The question isn't, can we just keep the baby in there a little longer?
Even though that may become a question, the doctors may decide to do that from a broad array of confusions and intelligent sensitivities.
And he's using this analogy to describe humans on Earth.
What he is saying is, the water has broken, humans can't stay on Earth anymore.
The womb is turning, the humans are turning the womb toxic.
He's right about that. He's right.
Except he's presenting it more as a natural process where, at least in some number of cases,
what we might call a predominant or penultimate animal on a living planet that becomes,
I mean, this is so ironic, there's so much history here he doesn't understand, but it becomes representational.
And so, what that means is it's going to become more and more divorced from its own nature, origin, and context.
An analogy of this, which I think Eric would appreciate, is the fish has become allergic to water.
It's making itself allergic to water.
It's not going to become a bird, it's going to remain a fish, but it will become more and more allergic to the water because
it's intentionally doing something, 900 things to the water and 1000 new ones per second,
that make it impossible not merely for there to be fish, but for there to be organisms at all.
And Eric seems to think, well, one disagreement I would have with him is relatively simple.
A moment.
Eric would like it if, like Elon.
And, you know, Eric disagrees with Elon in a way similar to what I do.
Eric doesn't think Mars is a very attractive second wound, but Eric would like to give the humans the freedom to traverse the stars.
He's really angry the physics hasn't succeeded in the past, you know, since relativity at least, if not from before that,
has done mostly nothing except gaze, you know, hypno-aiically at string into the depths of string theory,
as demanded by Ed Whitten, the god of string theory,
which has failed, you know, to bring any horse to the race.
It's a horse race in this case.
String theory has neither horses nor runs races.
It just proposes the running of races for 50 years.
A time in which we should have made 10 important discoveries that could get us either to post scarcity consuming
or to space.
And by space he doesn't mean nearby solar systems.
He means space, the big stuff.
We can go to other stars.
And I think that releasing anything resembling modern humanity on time space is one of the dumbest ideas I've ever heard.
There's lots of analogies people use to describe the humans.
Often these analogies of children misbehaving.
Those analogies are okay, but the actual situation here is much weirder.
All the life phases of the humans are misbehaving together.
And goose stepping with the clockwork of protocols that are fundamentally lethal.
You can imagine the situation in which in a human body there was an overwhelming, sudden, overwhelming,
a curve rise.
A sudden, overwhelming curve rise in a signal that causes cells to die.
And they could die from, you know, maybe 10, there's probably 10 different ways for them to pass away.
So you can imagine first a signal within a single body that does this.
Essentially what's going to happen is that person will explode inflammation everywhere and then death.
The humans are generating a death signal.
And the one thing you really don't want to happen is for that to get out into time space at all, ever.
And as I've mentioned many times before, I think Ed Whitten probably did us a favor,
because if we'd actually made physical advancements over the past 50 years, it's entirely clear to me that they'd have been weaponized.
In case you haven't read much science fiction and you're not particularly imaginative about what humans would do,
given something like free energy, let me be absolutely clear.
There is zero chance of a post-scarcity world for the humans as they exist at present.
Because for there to be a post-scarcity world, the dominant financial, industrial, military, prison-eering forces would have to be either put out to pasture or destroyed.
Or, you know, you don't really have to destroy them, you just have to replace them.
They're not going to go quietly into the good night, though, unfortunately.
Or into the long night, as it may be.
Yeah, unfortunately those forces are so disoriented that if you threaten them directly, they'll take the world hostage.
And anyone who can see anything at all knows this is true.
In a sense, it's ironic, and there's a reason that we fight, quote-unquote, fight, that we interact with cancer in the human body by training a weapon on it, and that the weapon is radiation.
Because what you have is a cell that has become highly proliferative.
It just keeps making more of itself everywhere it can.
And so it's also the most expensive metabolic proposition you can table.
It will literally consume all of the metabolic energy of the body in many cases.
So it's as if it's sort of the opposite of a power plant.
It's a distributed, unpower plant.
And one of the things I'm going to suggest is that what is happening to the humans right now, and has been for a good six years or so, six years or six to nine years, maybe.
Is that there is a propagation of an unpower plant in a context we don't even have language for, or is very difficult for us to identify directly one of the two.
And again, anything that attacks what you identify correctly with, right?
I mean, this is in effect how you build a mind virus that can eat the entire population.
If they think there's something happening that they're unable to detect, particularly if only special people can detect it,
and I recognize the signature in a number of the current socio-political gambits, right?
Where something's wrong, something's fundamentally wrong, and unjust, although those things are true.
But only we know how to detect it, and those who don't agree with our detections aren't humans.
We shouldn't listen to them.
There should be no discussions with them.
There are to be no discussions, except among those who agree that the thing we're detecting is the problem.
And that problem is, for example, patriarchy, colonization.
You can pick up any monster you want, and you can collect the monsters into a kind of monster bracelet that you just keep adding to.
You know, it's true, for example, that mechanical time is tyrannical.
It's true.
Is wokeness, the answer is, is wokeness get to weaponize that fact for their benefit?
Thus claiming, you know, watches are patriarchal, time doesn't exist, mechanical time isn't true.
There are so many untrue things and so many injustices in common human thought and activity that if you're going to fund a meme set with them,
we are the ones who collect and display the injustices, and no one else shall do so, is a great way, it's a great source of funding.
Also, anything that suggests mutual victimhood, right?
What does a victim have to do?
Nothing, they just broadcast.
By the way, that's sort of what cancer cells do.
They don't do anything except reproduce and broadcast.
They just broadcast like crazy.
This leads to a problem called, oh god, the sudden explosive spread of cancer to many organs or tissues.
I can't recall the name of it right now.
My mind is on seven other subjects.
Perhaps it will come to me.
But yes, so they basically just, it's a reproductive, it's a cellular.
Okay, so is a cancer cell still a cell?
Obviously it belongs to the category.
Cancer cells are a kind of, you know, one thing a cell can become as cancer is.
But it's sort of like the question, I'm going to twist the language up, just warning you ahead of time here.
When is an assassin not a comedian?
When is a serial killer not funny?
Categories can be very misleading, can't they?
And if we demonstrate how misleading they can be with statements like that, or statements like,
this is the most important statement you will ever hear in English.
You can see how the humor is in a way the composition of a route in consciousness.
And then the sudden unexpected either disappearance of the route just goes poof, it's gone, or a radical transformation of it.
So that instead of, you know, we're going to a boat, and we walk along the path that should lead to a boat,
and we get to where the boat is, it's time space, right?
No, it's Saturn, right?
No, it's a certain breed of dog, or it's cat behavior, or anything you want to put there.
You can structure human consciousness so that it has basic expectations,
and then you can obliterate those artfully if you are a good comedian.
I think Eric is naive in that, and he'd probably be the first to admit this.
If I sat down and talked to him and asked him some clear questions, I suspect he'd admit this.
But he might say I don't care.
I think he's naive in two ways.
One, he thinks it's not just a good idea, but the natural next step in a progression to get humans propagating out there in time space.
And I don't think that's a very dumb idea.
The earth womb bubble is a context that's safe enough because it's enclosed for humans to experiment together at being human.
And you have to wait until some really good experiments, some really beautiful and noble and creative experiments,
and experiments that recall the virtues, particularly the virtue of memory.
You have to wait until such time as the group body of the humans are willing to compose and conduct and enact brilliantly beautiful experiments.
And those out-compete, they naturally out-compete what we might imagine to be their opposites, which are the malignant experiments,
and their propagation and domination activities.
And then I think Eric is naive in a second way, which is,
it wouldn't surprise me to discover that Ed Whitten is a puppet, tabled by intelligences, very profound intelligences,
that came to him with a bargain.
Like, we're going to give you two things at once, and you must accept them both, but you must enact the second one.
We'll give you the answers to the mysteries you're chasing, we'll feed them to you over time, and you'll be able to test them.
But you must release none of those to the humans.
What you do with the humans is entrance them with string theory.
Because it is reminiscent of what's actually going on, but we'll ensure they don't get the keys to the stars.
So, at least for another, it'll keep them busy for a couple hundred years, and then suddenly some clever young woman will be like,
Aha! I see the problem in string theory. This is wrong. She sweeps most of it away, and there revealed, you know, some ring of keys to the sky.
But I think he's naive. I think he seems to not take seriously the idea that other intelligences are necessarily engaged in structuring space-time.
And if they weren't before, they sure as fuck are now.
And it's not that they're unfriendly to humans. They're unfriendly to anything that masquerades as human.
Anything that pretends to belong to the category the same way a cancer cell does.
But it enacts a series of protocols that are fundamentally lethal to all forms of life, right?
The humans are indiscriminately on the sidle at the group level.
Thankfully, most of the individuals, though that it does occasionally get down into the individuals, and you'll see someone, often a male, go on some rampage.
And we're still some group of males, right?
Get them really amped up about some real or feigned injustice, and then give them guns, and direct them at any population, and watch them mayhem ensue.
The broken monkeys are ever more broken as our development proceeds, not ever less, as we might hope, imagine, and conceive of attempting to achieve together.
So I think he's naive in that there are other intelligences involved, and they would not want the problem that infests our species at the group level to emerge into time space.
And the fundamental, one of the most fundamental dangers there is that humans will just build machines that build machines, and we've seen plenty of science fiction about that.
But I think you'd have a hard time imagining how quickly you could go from trees and birds and flowers and insects still exist to they don't anymore.
Because I imagine you could get there in, just depends on how recursively self-amplifying what you do is, you can get there in an hour.
You could probably get there in an hour with an effective enough prosthesis.
And that doesn't mean, oh, there's no more life forms. That means that the entire history, the line of all of the living beings that ever lived here, ends there, poof, extinguished.
And there are people who will say, well, humans were a bad experiment to begin with. Right, William S. Burroughs might, but I doubt it.
I think he actually cares about the humans. And he's certainly aware there are other intelligences in time space.
So what I'm suggesting is, if physics suddenly delivered vehicles capable of interstellar travel, perhaps instantaneous interstellar travel,
we would very quickly find ourselves faced with, not enemies, but authorities that would just raise one finger toward, you know, our entire species and say, nope.
Stop doing stupid, deadly, lethal things and pretending those things are glorious.
There's nothing glorious about laying waste to the entire living history of your world and the possibility of human minds, their origin, their nature, their intrinsic purpose of endowments.
Stop putting an end to that. Stop trading that for trinkets and snack food.
Become a coherent species.
Doing any other thing is going to cost you everything. You no longer have the, you have wound the clock string of nature so tightly on your planet that there's no longer any play in it.
And the clocks that that tension usually funds, you've taken them apart at their basis.
So that thing is just building stress. And when it snaps, the repercussions will certainly, you know, be devastating to maybe everything.
I mean, there's other naivetés. The humans think they're the only game in town. They're nothing like the only game in town.
They're one of the weirdest games in town.
Anyone who just steps outside human culture long enough to look back at us from outside will see
that it depends on what they're looking for. If they're looking for the beauty, they can find it.
But if they're looking for absurd, omnicidal, self-devastation, I mean, our species acts like a guy who takes himself hostage while attempting to rob a bank.
It's so ridiculous from outside.
And, you know, anciently evolved intelligences would not be entertained by our japes.
They would not see our species as intelligent at all.
At the group level, we are bad. We're doing bad things.
Every single human being go to them and ask them. They'll tell you. Ask them the questions.
Do you trust what your species is doing? Do you trust what some nation is doing?
Any of them who are still in any way sober or connected with their own minds will say no.
Do you think the humans will establish a path to a sustainable and livable, humane, intelligent future?
No, they will not. Not the modern ones. Not the ones we have running around today.
So one of the things Eric was suggesting, which I agree with, is that something has affected our motivation very profoundly
in a relatively, you know, in the span of like one or two generations.
And maybe in a span much shorter than that.
Again, we're used to changes happening in pulses over time, much like contractions lead to birth.
We've eradicated the play in the clock spring.
Now they happen now.
Something that would have pulsed and given us a signal that it was coming just happens.
There's no pulsing.
We have learned using science to detect transformations in particular signals.
For example, signals from space to the surface of the earth.
Such that there's a bandwidth, there's some bandwidths we can watch.
And there's very good data to suggest that we can predict earthquakes by watching for a set of transformations.
In the duration of...
Ah, there it is.
Okay, up.
Then...
Sorry, I'm watching a blue heron.
It was about to do the old signal dance.
But then the wind where it's sitting became too...
too unstable.
It made its footing unstable, its basis unstable.
It's hard to do the dance when the thing your feet are on is moving.
Wow, maybe that's one of the messages this whole recording is about.
Because there's a lot of different variables that contribute to the stability or instability of the earth beneath our feet.
Anyone who's tried, for example, you could put some pontoons on or some magic sauce on the soles of your feet.
It'll allow you to float.
It'll allow you to step out onto the surface of the water.
Your chances of walking are zero.
You're going to fall down right now.
Because you need something probably more like complex ice skates than sneakers.
The surface of the water is much more slippery than ice.
So if you're going to walk on that.
What I was saying was there are both certain signals from the earth that are sent in an electromagnetic frequency range.
And at the same time, we can detect a change in how long it takes signals from, for example, GPS satellites to reach a location where they are received.
Subtle transformations in those signals were noticed before the Fukushima earthquake.
Now, of course, we have a big problem here and the problem is that academic science wants to continue failing to solve the problem of earthquake preparedness.
So again, we come to a situation where somebody brings them an answer and that person does not get to continue in their career or is viciously attacked.
So I just had an encounter with a crab spider inside a calla lily.
I haven't seen them in so many years and I'm really glad to see them here.
I'm unsure.
I've looked for them in Golden Gate Park.
I don't think I've ever seen one.
I've only seen them in a very specific garden in which I have not seen them for many years.
So that was kind of an exciting moment in nature.
I must remember what is it?
I must remember the moon.
The moon cycle.
No to it.
The ones I saw were female. I saw two of them in a small group of flowers.
That implies a much larger population than those two for there to be two on such a small group of flowers.
That could mean many things.
So yeah, I think we have to hope that the intelligence is involved in composing time space and probably involved in the composition of organisms
and possibly involved in the propagation of life across living worlds throughout time.
We would have to hope that...
You know, when I was in the bathroom a moment ago, I took a break, restroom break, there was a mosquito.
And it made me think of how humans, the kinds of mistakes that humans make in their attempts to control the mosquito.
Quote, unquote, control the mosquito population as if it's a separate thing from them.
And this is what I mean when I say, you know, we've defected from nature on purpose as a species.
You know, my friend Ryan Furstiver works with animals in Lethbridge.
He's part of the system in place to, in his words, protect the animals from humans.
And in his way of life, he is fulfilling important obligations as a human being to remember the intimacy of the filial relations between humans and at least the living world.
This causes him lots of problems.
In his quest for a mate, for example...
That was funny.
I'll come back to Ryan in a moment. The jogger who just passed me, she said,
in the sense that I ask so many questions and then I don't leave space for other people to do that.
I mean, that's familiar.
There's an even worse problem than that, which my son was speaking of the other night.
Imagine that you're so curious and insightful that you're constantly showing people problems in their behavior or their thought or their situation
and solutions, you're implying solutions, but they don't want a solution.
What they want is a relationship. They're trying to bond with you and you're, meanwhile, directing critical thought at them.
I don't mean critical in the DEI sense. I mean critical as in critical thinking skills.
We have to be careful these days because many features of our lexicon are being gobbled up by, I don't know, hopeful monsters.
We might call them.
So you can imagine a situation in which, for example, someone like myself, I'm very interested.
I think we're bonding.
My impression is that we're bonding around insight and questing and adventure and consciousness.
When I have never tabled that proposal for mutual agreement in any reasonable way,
and the other person is just trying to see, like, is there something warm here we can have together?
Human? Can we bond?
If I say I like the show on TV, is that likely to elicit a catastrophic critique of modern media and how it dumps us down?
That's a really uncomfortable position where if I have to preview in consciousness all the angles of the circle
where critical gaze can produce an issue, a problem, a judgment, a criticism,
pretty soon I can't speak at all.
I have close friends who struggle, and I love them, and I think they're heroic,
but they shouldn't have to be heroic alone.
They struggle to compose a spoken sentence in any actual conversation,
and perhaps much more so with me than anyone,
because they imagine that I will bring the momentum of my critical faculties to bear on them when they speak
in the same way that I do when I'm looking at human civilization, society,
what we call industry, war, etc., media, which is not going to happen.
If they ask me to do something like that directly, then maybe.
And I might nudge them a little here and there if I think they're trying,
like we're actually engaged in an intellectual conversation like I was yesterday with my friend Brian.
We were engaged in an intellectual conversation, and so we're both trying to nudge each other toward insight,
but again, I failed to put the proposal on the table that just says,
let's make some agreements, let's have some principles,
and one of them is that we will, in all honesty, integrity, and good faith,
attempt to help each other to see better together whenever we are seeing.
We will resist the urge to nurture our pet biases and perspectives.
We don't have to kill them, but we will resist that urge,
and we will go for what in the song title is like higher ground.
I think there's a couple of lyrics using that phrase, at least.
We'll go for a better perspective, and we're going to bring our hearts with us.
We're going to be emotional. We're not going to just be abstract.
We'll bring our hearts with us, and we will climb together.
We will help each other see more clearly, more usefully, more intelligently, more creatively,
than we have before, and some of that will be playful.
Some of that will be joking with each other.
I heard a rather captivating advertisement that utilized,
and by the way, I'm sure this is being weaponized as we speak,
but I heard a rather captivating advertisement in which it was pretty funny.
Both the guys are British, but one of them is speaking in, what would I call it?
People would call it more privileged language, the language of privilege, the English.
I'm not even sure if the primary speaker was British,
but he had a good chunk of British accent,
and was speaking in a relatively sophisticated character,
whereas the other guy is aping a sort of skillful moron.
And the advertisement was for a language teaching program.
So in the front, you have the guy who's giving you the pitch,
and in the background you have included a naysayer who is obviously japing, right?
He's playing a role, he's para, yeah, he's para-japing.
He's playing a character that is intentionally caricatured for effect,
and that kind of play is very effective for humans,
because we have evolved to doubt first advertising itself,
and then the monopolar accolades of advertising,
this product will change your life.
We'd like to hear detractors inside the advertisement.
If people put detractors inside the advertisement,
their advertising can become vastly more effective,
and somebody has noticed this fact,
particularly some brilliant young advertising copywriter has noticed this fact.
And I'm sure that's not the only time the tool's been employed,
but I found it sort of charming, which was bothersome.
And in a sense, what you want as an advertisement, excuse me, as an advertiser,
is anything that creates stickiness in consciousness, brand recognition, you want that.
And negative recognition can be useful, though it isn't always.
When it comes to topics like these, what's going on?
What problems are we facing?
Who is we?
What does we even mean in 2024?
Is that an outdated or archaic idea?
And who has captured we-ness and is weaponizing it?
And then, you know, problems like, well, what do we do?
What can we actually do?
Do you know what to do?
Darren, you see this problem.
You probably experienced the problem in your own life,
or you would not be focused in this way,
or the phenomena, even if we don't frame it as a problem.
You see these phenomena in your own life, in your own experience.
Look, let me be clear.
My lifespan here is limited.
I have reached the outer edges of the solar system of Darren's identity and imperatives.
I don't have to reproduce.
I'm not forced to try to make money every day by circumstances.
Which reminds me, I have to go back to my friend, Ryan.
So, you know, Ryan goes out on calls where people have what they consider to be a problem with an animal.
And usually a problem with an animal is kind of similar to some people thinking they have a problem with indigenous people.
And what is the problem?
They keep showing up.
Currently, our modern nations and societies,
we have a problem with a specific, it's not funny at all.
I'm not laughing because it's funny.
I'm laughing because it's ridiculously confusing and a mess.
We have a problem with certain kinds of religious fundamentalists.
Hopefully we have a problem with them who would like nothing more than to slaughter innocent people.
And there are different varieties of that disease among the humans.
We need to be very watchful when any population or organization becomes oriented by exclusionist propaganda.
Or anything resembling kill them all and let God sort them out.
Or anything resembling kill the infidels.
Just slaughter them.
Take great joy.
It's a holy purpose.
You can see the inversion of human purpose of intelligence in these charades that are devastating and horrifying when enacted.
Always being enacted all day long.
27 million times per minute.
We've created engines of dysphoric megalomania.
But any time we start to hear the cry, kill the infidel,
we're very carefully concerned with how we try to deal with the problems arising from that.
And it doesn't matter if the infidel, it doesn't matter who the infidel is.
And we're certainly hearing noises like that.
In the West, they haven't quite reached the pitch where you can openly say.
Where, for example, woke culture or extreme right-wing culture can get away with straight up saying, you know, kill other people.
But we're on the verge of it.
Often in nations, if this kind of disease gets started, it's either because war has been selected as the next move.
She notices it.
The dog saw that I was interested in something, so she came over and checked it out.
It's the natural response of the satellite intelligence.
They would like you to check out what they're interested in, but if you're in the dominant position, they will certainly check out what you're interested in.
So yeah, war is, when we see this kind of thing going on, war either has already been happening or it's next on the agenda or both and more.
Because you can bleed off if, okay, let's suppose, let's take a model, a toy box society.
The toy box society, and one thing that's happening in the society that is very alarming and disturbing, is that every few days, or even more often, some young or older male, and almost never females, goes batshit and saying,
loads up on guns in an homage to Kurt Cobain and kills a bunch of innocent people.
So in the sandbox, in our hypothetical mini world, we notice this is happening.
Well, there's two things you can do, and which one you're going to select depends a lot on what your underlying motivations are.
If your underlying motivations are intelligent and humane, what you do is you don't attack the symptom.
You don't attack the young men.
You might remove them from the capacity to repeat the behavior, and sometimes that may mean killing them because they've already decided that they're on a suicide mission.
For example, even then, you don't have to kill them.
But you study them, and you determine what was the genesis of this, and what you're going to find is that it's never merely mental illness.
Most likely, that's what you're going to find.
You're going to find out that the structure in the sandbox, the structure of the society, is wrong.
It is bad.
It's malignant.
It's lying.
And the poison it's producing gets concentrated, and men tend to concentrate it better than women,
or they both concentrated equally well.
They just concentrated differently so that one of the common expressions in men is sudden, inexplicable, relatively inexplicable mass murder.
Or, you know, you get the serial version of it.
You get a serial killer.
So when you see that, you can study and resolve, right, by changing the structure of your society,
and by repairing the value systems, the relational systems, the identity systems,
so that it's actually rewarding to participate, and there are endless opportunities for such participation.
There's no reason to have a society that isn't like that, right?
And yet, we do have the built-for-failure model that produces what might as well be cognitive, social, relational radiation.
And along with that, we're facing lots of weird kinds of actual physical radiation from devices, and electricity, and LEDs, and Wi-Fi, cell towers, and so forth.
And there's a group of people that will say, for example, there's no evidence of the name that's harmful.
Bullshit!
The membrane of every cell is an electromagnetic wonderland of delicate protein folding and other kinds of operations.
There's no way you can bathe those cells in noise and expect them to work well.
And there are certain kinds of noise that will definitely kill them off, or reduce their function catastrophically,
and that can happen so quickly that our data gathering doesn't track it.
The data is 100 years behind what nature is up to at this moment in human culture, most of the data.
You don't get a signal till long after it's too late to respond to it.
So the other protocol you can enact around when you notice that the men are, or that it's common, how should I put it?
It's too common, right? It's much more common than it should be, that young or middle-aged men explode into violence.
And it doesn't have to be, right, they kill up 70 people. It can be just focused on one person or a small group of people or something.
Again, punishing them is the wrong fucking idea, unless you're a prisoner, in which case you make money from punishing them.
Now you have an incentive to pretend, no, the problem is in that man, right, in the case of our sandbox, right?
It's not, it's in that man. We have to attack it back and make it pay for its crime.
There is no crime that has ever been committed that can be paid for. Crime is not a system of accounting.
It's not a commercial product. I mean, actually, it turns out it is a commercial product.
What I mean, though, is that if wrongdoing becomes an accounting system, we're fucked.
Because it means that basic relational integrity has collapsed and we're no longer cognizant.
We can't recognize that problem. It's the same thing I was mentioning earlier, where the matter at hand attacks what you would use to detect it with first.
And in case it's not obvious, there are similar features in nature, but do this.
One of the great examples, which tends to produce mad organ dysfunction, as well as oncogenesis, right?
Cancer making. Oh, the word I was looking for earlier.
Metastasized. That's when a localized cancer spreads suddenly and often explosively throughout related organs and or tissues.
Quite distant, metabolically, from the site at which it originates.
Think of the distance between, for example, well, any part of your body, let's say, your throat and your spleen.
And if you're thinking of the distance at the scale of human measuring, it's very close by.
But if you're thinking of the distance at the scale of cells, you're probably talking about a distance.
So are you. You're probably talking about a distance.
Oh, so funny. They were looking at a hair and hunting gopher and saying it's a beautiful site.
Yeah, for a cell, that's a huge distance. That's like light years away.
That's like there being a problem on earth and suddenly finding that the problem has.
And by the way, we should carefully think about such things this way.
It's like having a problem in a specific housing block in Cincinnati and then having it show up on a planet orbiting Rigel.
And the humans think, oh, there's no reason, there's no reason to believe that anything can connect earth and Rigel wrong.
They both come from the same mother. They might as well be twins.
They originate from the same context.
And notice when I say wrong, it's like I'm banging a gong.
Wrong, you know, just we should resonate. Nope, you got that.
That one, you missed that question on the test humans.
Metastasization. Okay, so let's ask ourselves a really weird question, which is an important one.
What is the opposite of social and relational metastasization of memorial metastasization?
Stuff that attacks our memory.
If humans are having a disease that attacks memory, they should back the fuck up and pause as a species.
And this is one, okay, so when a circle back, I know I'm bird walking a bit.
Our guy who's misbehaving one of the strategies you can employ.
If this starts to happen a lot in your society is you just direct the killing, right?
So you start wars or you participate in them.
Or, you know, you redirect the loss of human dignity, meaning, identity, role.
You redirect that loss toward a scapegoat.
And that works. And humans leaders have done this again and again throughout history.
It is well studied. It is well understood.
This is a thing that we often do as a species.
And primarily, it's hard to easily say what the role of the women in general is.
But this is something that happens to the men.
And the women are at least peripherally compromised or captured by this, if not directly.
You know, today, in our time, I imagine that conscription has become bisexual in the sense that it needn't make determinations about gender.
It can conscript anyone today.
A transformation that I consider tragic and perhaps quite devastating.
So one thing you can do is you can sort of bleed off.
You should study the problem and change.
We should use criminal behavior to understand its origins and transform our societies to reflect those new understandings and continue that process
and realize that whatever enlightenment might mean, it means something like this.
And some very conservative people will argue you're rewarding bad people for bad deeds.
And I will argue the context you're supporting necessitates bad deeds.
This may sound extremely liberal, but for example,
if our toy box nation is spending $10 trillion every 10 years on the possibility of war and devastating human conflict
and spending the rest of its money mostly just ripping the environment to shreds and stacking up paper and banks as a result,
we're not having a society yet.
If the academics are teaching fictions to our children and each other and supporting them,
we're not having education yet.
And by the way, education is the one thing that you can go after
that will definitely affect your capacity to detect that something is going after it.
It's actually the breadth and depth of one's not just representational education, though that matters too.
It's the depth and breadth of the diverse bases of one's education
that produces people who are not easily either A, deceived, or B, conscripted, or C, extorted into participation in atrocity.
And neither can we just say, like, well, it's all atrocity these days.
It's a big Disneyland of atrocity. True.
But that doesn't mean we can defect.
We still have an obligation to discover what it means to be human
and to redirect our societies towards something meaningful, true, beautiful, noble, trustworthy, with integrity, honesty, sincerity.
And the capacity to detect counterfeits of virtue.
I don't... I'm not...
I guess I'm concerned with the kind of insight that detects injustice.
But I might be more concerned at the moment, at this moment in history,
with the kind of insight that detects the counterfeiting of virtue.
And again, in the signal environment, if we were...
If we'd been trained in signal intelligence,
and we were observing the signals being sent in our cultures right now,
the dominating signal forms and species and motivations and so forth.
We would be more than worried.
We would realize, oh, shit.
We're not merely being invaded, and this is true of all nations.
We're not merely suffering in an obscure array of simultaneous invasions.
The fundamental basis of our humanity, of our cognition, of our relationships, of our language, of our politics, of our infrastructure,
and particularly the military, industrial, prison, mimetic context.
That shit's been captured and is being weaponized against us as a people, the whole people.
I mean, it's a little bit weirder because it's like that scene in Blade Runner where Harrison Ford is about to be
forcefully conscripted one more time to go hunt replicants, which it has been deduced,
are not willing to go to their time-synced death chamber on time,
and if they're going to be forced to, intend to take some of the other people with them to send a message.
Bad message, bad way of sending it, but I get it.
So he's facing his boss. I can't remember that actor's name at the moment.
Maybe it'll come to me.
The boss outlines the proposal and Ford says, no, I'm fucking retired. I don't want to kill anyone anymore.
And the boss says, you know the game, either with us or your little people.
I have such a deep reverence and respect for older humans now that I've tasted of their sorrows in my own life.
My God, the staggering isolation and loneliness burden of most elders,
along with a problem that we've skirted in this, I've skirted in this dissertation.
The problem of what happens if you don't have to go to work?
What happens to humans if they're, what actually happens if their needs are taken care of?
Hello.
There's an intrinsic need in us to be engaged in meaningful physical, psychological, relational, societal endeavors.
And that can be captured and weaponized and that's, you know, history is, modern history anyway is replete with examples of this.
But there is something fundamental in that we need.
Well, we can defect from relational starvation and educational asphyxiation or bombardment, both, right?
We can defect from either of those into work.
But optimally, we need to be doing, there is an intrinsic need to meaningfully employ our human bodies, minds, spirits.
And we're getting a lot of, I'll retract that.
We're in a situation where the context has transformed to produce endless forms of make work
that are anything but rewarding, yet do serve the purpose.
It's like the junk food of work, right? It's junk work.
And throughout history, we've heard again and again the echo, the resounding echo of a promise.
We will release you from work to become enlightened.
Okay, could happen.
We will release you from work or in prison hearing so that you can establish on enlightened society.
But the modes of that have to be established before...
It's like you need to have that stuff spun up before you stop giving humans work.
And in the interim, when it's not yet spun up and the human desire or possibility of meaningful work is evaporating worldwide.
You might want to pay attention to the origin of that signal because it might mean, and I think it does mean, at least in part and possibly in large part,
that the role humans play in the network of minds and in the network of life on Earth
has gotten rid of the necessities that gave birth to humans.
Or it's gotten rid of its reach the boundary conditions under which you want to get rid of that process.
There are all kinds of processes where the earthquake in Fukushima is a good example.
You have a nuclear reactor built on a fault.
The unthinkable happens tidal wave from earthquake.
Earthquake itself may have damaged the reactor. I can't remember.
But the tidal wave was like the death knell.
So now you have a process that is spinning out of control and can kill everything around it for large.
And you can have the same problem on a planet.
You can have a planet where a process gets started that can spread to the other planets.
It can metastasize to them.
If there's a real-time relationship between planets in space-time, a possibility I would like to strongly emphasize as very likely,
then what happens on our planet costs lives on other planets.
There's a degree to which the planets can act as a buffer against developmental damage to organismal membranes in time-space.
They can share that burden the same way three humans can lift 400 pounds without much trouble.
But if one of those humans keeps stacking 100-pound weights and isn't lifting anymore, they're contributing burden,
there's going to be a reciprocal transformation of the relationship, and it will not be fun.
It won't be pretty.
You know, it isn't nature that's red in tooth and claw,
though the problem faced by embodied organisms that have to feed themselves is real.
But compared to nature, the humans are blood-drenched.
They're just like half-zombie, half-vampire, monster.
And of course, the individual humans aren't like that, but the species at the group level, they are completely disoriented,
they are omnicidal, arbitrary in judgment, kill this one, save that one.
Not intelligent.
Not survivable.
So one of the signals we might be seeing here,
when I talk about what took place in 2018 for me and many people that I know,
is we might be seeing a senescence signal.
If we are one of the cellular cultures of the animal that is Earth or the meta-animal, right,
because she produces animals naturally as a result of having stabilized her environment and so forth,
then, you know, something needs to interfere to either reduce our population dramatically,
and perhaps it's not, I would argue that it's not our population that's the actual problem.
The actual problem is object proliferation, dead structure that keeps reproducing instead of living structure.
Okay, any agenda like that, any system like that, that's got a very fucking limited lifetime.
It might have worked in the 1950s, it isn't going to work for 10 more years.
So the object proliferation is actually the problem, and you can, you know,
you can probably wreck up enough humans to interfere with that without eliminating the species or destroying the planet.
If you were an intelligent, you know, what I'm trying to figure out is like the human relationship with mosquitoes,
which is very deep and intimate, unlike what we would think,
is a caricature of what an actually intelligent non-human intelligence or collective of such intelligences
would be likely to propose and enact in relation to the problem with the humans and their predilection
to value objects and concepts over biospheres.
That is definitely a disease you do not want propagating freely in time space.
Machines that build machines, machines in general, damage and array of resources the humans are unaware of the existence of.
And one of those resources is biorelational time.
That is the foundation of minds for embodied beings, and particularly around here.
So, you know, the humans keep building new kinds of guns to point at new features of nature,
and then pulling the trigger over and over again, especially in modern history,
by which I mean like, I don't know, past 3,000 years or something in this case.
What you don't necessarily need to kill the humans, you have to get them to stop making guns.
You have to get them to make something that contributes to the ancient agreements among living beings
and their prosperity and survival and development and hope, and maybe even fulfillment.
Because what parents don't so much mind a lot of suffering, if they know their children will prosper,
eventually they don't care about themselves, they just care about those they love,
and for many of those parents, those they love are the living world.
There are the animals and plants and insects.
They look very generously and adoringly upon the face of life on earth,
and meet it with reverence and adoration, with wonder, with recognition, with re...
with an amnesis, right? Unforgetting.
They need it, and it causes them to forget, and they drink that water.
They need that water of life.
There is a path for us forward.
I think we have to cut our teeth on simple tasks we can do in small groups,
and learn how to forge those groups, how to experiment,
and play at the experiment of understanding how to solve something
that will really be meaningful for us to resolve,
or to help someone who is, you know, struggling, or in trouble, or is alone,
or to help the animals, or the biosphere.
You know, it's unfortunate that concern for the environment has become associated with wokeism.
Again, it's another of the plastic gemstones that you can glue on to any mimetic pathology
in order to help it propagate faster.
And by the way, to be really clear, I'm very concerned about what I think of as wokeism.
However crudely that idea may be formed in my mind.
The effective and creative response to actual injustice,
the intelligent response to such matters,
that's something I deeply believe in, I think, is natural to human beings, to care about that.
There's an owl here, a male, I'm pretty sure.
There's also a band shell right nearby emitting amplified music.
Way up top.
Ah, thank you.
Oh no, the lights came on.
I wonder how painful that is for the owls.
Oh, the lights adjust.
The lights are adjusting their brightness based on movement.
It's very interesting.
The first voice was the female.
The higher pitched voice in the owls was the female.
There goes the female and there goes the male.
Following her.
But not.
They intend to continue there.
It's really interesting.
The male traveled with the female until she perched and then he diverged, not going to her perch.
Which in a sense means the continuation of courtship and not what you can guess might otherwise ensue.
Well, I've explored so much terrain today.
There is a feature I want to highlight that the humans need meaningful mutual endeavors.
This has been replaced by the idea of work.
And simply we tend to have these two polar divisions, jobs and recreation, jobs and entertainment.
And both of those are highly captured and dangerous in their modern formats.
So we have to reestablish both and perhaps make a mix where we play at doing things together that are noble and true and virtuous and brilliant.
And hilarious and amazing and resurrecting, rescuing, healing, nurturing all these things.
We have to play at forming behaviors of these sorts together and then enacting them.
Or so I strongly think.
I suspect the distant music is spooky and haunting.
I want to thank all of you who have traveled with me today and those of you who will travel with me in the future or the past.
Please take a moment, if you will, to do what I won't hear request.
But you'll understand what I mean.
I look forward to learning and exploring together again very soon.
May your world and relationships be vital, beautiful and inspiring.
Until next time, bye-bye for now.